 
 

PERSONAL DETAILS
 
 

Name	Walid Elfatih Eltigani Ali.
Date Of Birth	2nd of July 1976.
Place Of Birth	Khartoum, Sudan.
Nationality	Sudanese.
Gender	Male.
Language	Arabic (Mother tongue), English.
Marital Status	Single.
Mobile-no	UAE : +971 50 3060462.
E-mail	w_elfatih@hotmail.com , walid@kcrecsh.ae

Valid Sudanese and UAE Driving license.
 


EDUCATION & QUALIFICATIONS
 
 

1996– 2001	September 2001      OMDURMAN AHLIA UNIVERSITY                       Khartoum, Sudan
Bachelors  - Computer Sciences
2001	Training course -Programming with Visual Studio 6 (Visual Basic).
25/03/2005 to 10/04/2005	Training course – Orion Advantage Business Solution – UAE – Dubai
3i InfoTech Company – Dubai – Internet City
	
	

SUMMARY OF QUALIFICATIONS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


PRESENET EXPERIENCE
 
 

2001  –  11/2006	Job Description:  ERP Project  Co-ordinator & Software Engineer.
Company name:
 Systems Technology Co. Ltd.
Responsibilities:
 
ERP Project :
 
·      Business Process Study - Study of the Business Systems of Sales, Purchases, Inventory, Finance, Receivables and Payables.
·      System Set up - Hardware and Software configuration.
·      Wings ERP Setup - Modules, Masters, Transactions, Reports, Users.  Configuration of Transactions and Reports.
·      Implementation - Data Migration from the old system. Data entry.
·      Training the employees of Systems Technology on Wings ERP.Responsible for the Data Maintenance and rebuilding of the Company.
 
Wings Pro. Project:
 
System & Database  Administrator for the project:
 
·      To do the following up of the system starting with the installation till the year end process.
·      To handle the training of the clients in the handling of the system as well as its usage.
·      To be the link between the client & system producing co. (Wings Infonet Ltd. - India).
·      Responsible for the Data Maintenance and rebuilding of the company.
Orion Advantage Implementation:
 
        Database Administrator:
·      Implementation for Orion advantage using implementation methodology (Questionnaire, Analysis, Installation, Set-up & Settings, Troubleshooting, communicate with Supply Team (3i InfoTech – Dubai)).
·      Users Training.
·      Users Troubleshooting.
 
11/2006  –  Present	Job Description:   I.T Manager
Company name:
 Kuwaiti Commercial Real Estate Centre – Sharjah - UAE
Responsibilities:
 
·      Deploying and managing Information Technology assets and investments to achieving the K.C.R.E.C success in its Missions & Goals.
·      Application Manager for Management Information System (MIS), which consist of the following Modules:
1-    General Ledger: Main files, Cost Centers, Activities, Chart of accounts and Currencies.
- Transactions: Journal Voucher, Receipt and   Payment Vouchers, Real Estate Voucher and Returned PDC.
- Daily Operation: Confirm, unconfirmed and post, un post Transactions.
- Inquiry for Accounts statements.
- GL Reports.
- End of Year Process.
2- Real Estate Management System (REMS):
- Tenants Details.
- Property Details.
- Unit Details.
- Rent Contract.
- Generate Rent Demand.
- Tenants Payments: GL Interface with REMS in order to create automatic vouchers on GL Module; e.g.: Rent Demands and Tenants Payment.
- Tenants Inquiry.
- Reports.
3- Fixed Assets.
4- Security Modules.
·      Design and Develop Other Modules and Solutions integrated to MIS to accomplish a one business solution, using Oracle 8i. e.g.: Document Archive, Stock control, Bank Loans and others.
·      Install and Administration for Avaya Telephone System (Site Administration).
·      Managing and configuring Loop and Panel Readers system (Honeywell Access Systems. - Win-Pak and Access Cards).
·      Asst. Administration of Management Information System (General Ledger, Real Estate Management System).
·      Create and Design Analysis Reports.
·      Troubleshoot database entries.

SKILLS
 
 
 
 
S.1	·      Software Engineering and Systems Analysis and Design.
·      Visual Studio 6 (Visual Basic 6 ).
·      Crystal reports.
·      SQL Server.
·      Oracle Developer 2000  Rel 5,6,6i.
·      PL/SQL, Stored procedures, packages and triggers.
·      Operating Systems: Windows NT, Windows 2000, Windows 95/98/ME,XP, DOS.
·      Programming languages: C ++ , Pascal , Cobol.
·      MS office XP (Word , Excel , Power Point , Access ).
·      Managing and developing networks infrastructure
·      Virus detection and removal using Symantec products
·      Verbal and written communication skills
·      Strong writing and documentation skills
Excellent leadership skills and team management capabilities
S.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
S.3	Design and Developing of Financial &  Integrated Software's Using Oracle Products:
 
·      Business Process Study - Study of the Business Systems of Sales, Purchases, Finance, Document Cycle, Receivables and Payables as well as the Creditor & Debtor Accounts.
·      Designing of all the forms and invoices for the software using visual basic 6, MC Office as Database.
·      Connection to the Database done through ODBC.
·      The implementation of the designs & the business study.
·      Training of the staff on the usage of the software.
·      Maintenance of the Database.
Development & update of the system.
	Oracle Database Installation & Implementation:
·      Install all Oracle database versions (7, 8i, 9i and 10g) using Oracle Universal Installer.
·      Create, Delete and Configure oracle database (Custom Database, Data warehouse and General Purpose) during database installation or using Database Configuration Assistant – DBCA.
·      Managing Tablespaces.
·      Create users schema, privileges and authorization.
·      Creating database storage and schema objects.
·      Managing Parameter initialization file.
·      Managing data with SQL, PL/SQL.
·      Managing Oracle Listeners.
 
                                                                                                                     
 
	·      Client-side Names Resolution options.
·      Managing Import and Export commands.
·      Proactive Database Maintenance and Performance Monitoring
·      Implementing Database Recovery.
 
